---
layout: post
title:  "Delegation in iOS & Build Interface Programmatically"
date:   2016-07-08 09:43:00 +0800
categories: iOS
---
I am starting a series of posts summarizing the key concepts in Swift & Cocoa Touch learnt lately, to prepare for an iOS app project.

### Delegation
To say it easily, a *delegate* helps to do some work that the *delegator*, or delegating object, sends to it under certain conditions. To implement a delegation pattern, there are three major steps: 

- Adopt a particular delegation protocol at the beginning of the class. For example,  

```swift
class AddActivityViewController: UIViewController, UITextFieldDelegate
```
	 
Note this does not mean `AddActivityViewController` inherits `UITextFieldDelegate`. Swift does not support multiple inheritance, similar to Objective-C.  

- Link an object on interface to that delegate.  

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
	super.viewDidLoad()
	textField.delegate = self
}
```

- Implement delegate functions, so that the delegate would do certain things under a particular condition.  

```swift
func textFieldShouldReturn(textField: UITextField) -> Bool {
	textField.resignFirstResponder()
	return true
}
```
	
### Build Interfaces Programmatically
Coding out the user interfaces rather than drawing them on the storyboard has many advantages, one of which is that version control systems, such as `git`, would be more easily applied. Here are some basic functions of building an `UIView`, for instance:  

- An initializer, similar to constructor in C++/Java. It can be used to  
	- create labels, text fields, buttons, etc.
	- link their triggered actions to functions (similar target-action pattern when using storyboards, that is, `@IBAction`)  
	- Add these objects to the interface  
	
```swift
button.addTarget(self, action: #selector(RatingControl.ratingButtonTapped(_:)), forControlEvents: .TouchDown)
addSubview(button)
```
	
- `layoutSubviews()` function, which is called automatically to update interface layouts and could be used to set button frames, etc.  
- A *Property Observer* can sometimes be useful for updating the interface. It keeps track of a variable's value and calls a function immediately when it's changed.  

```swift
var rating = 0 {
didSet {
	setNeedsLayout() // force a layout update prior to the next drawing update
}
}
```
	
One last thing, never forget to connect the un-designed object on the storyboard (such as an empty `UIView`) to the custom class in Identity inspector! 

